              The Python 2.3 Method Resolution
                                        Order
                                                                                                 Release 3.13.3


                      Guido van Rossum and the Python development team


                                                                                                      April 27, 2025
                                                                                   Python Software Foundation
                                                                                       Email: docs@python.org


Contents

1 The beginning                                                                                                     2

2 The C3 Method Resolution Order                                                                                    3

3 Examples                                                                                                          4

4 Bad Method Resolution Orders                                                                                      6

5 The end                                                                                                           9

6 Resources                                                                                                         10




 ® Note

 This is a historical document, provided as an appendix to the official documentation. The Method Resolution
 Order discussed here was introduced in Python 2.3, but it is still used in later versions – including Python 3.


By Michele Simionato.
      Abstract
           This document is intended for Python programmers who want to understand the C3 Method Reso-
           lution Order used in Python 2.3. Although it is not intended for newbies, it is quite pedagogical with
           many worked out examples. I am not aware of other publicly available documents with the same
           scope, therefore it should be useful.
Disclaimer:
      I donate this document to the Python Software Foundation, under the Python 2.3 license. As usual in these
      circumstances, I warn the reader that what follows should be correct, but I don’t give any warranty. Use
      it at your own risk and peril!
Acknowledgments:
      All the people of the Python mailing list who sent me their support. Paul Foley who pointed out various
      imprecisions and made me to add the part on local precedence ordering. David Goodger for help with the



                                                          1
